The Project Gutenberg eBook of New Nick Carter weekly  No. 186., by
Nick Carter

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: New Nick Carter weekly  No. 186.
       Nick Carter rescues a daughter; or The junior partner's strange
       behavior.

Author: Nick Carter

Editor: Chickering Carter

Release Date: October 18, 2022 [eBook #69032]

Language: English

Produced by: David Edwards and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team
             at https://www.pgdp.net (Northern Illinois University
             Digital Library)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NEW NICK CARTER WEEKLY  NO.
186. ***





                          NICK CARTER WEEKLY.

  _Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1900 by Street &
 Smith, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, Washington, D. C._

 _Entered as second class Matter at the New York, N. Y., Post Office._

 _Issued weekly._ _Subscription price, $2.50 per year._ July 21, 1900.


No. 186. STREET & SMITH, Publishers. NEW YORK. 238 William St., N. Y. 5 Cents.




                    Nick Carter Rescues a Daughter;

                                  OR,

                THE JUNIOR PARTNER’S STRANGE BEHAVIOR.

                    By the Author of “NICK CARTER.”




CHAPTER I.

THE DEAD GIRL.


Nick Carter glanced at his watch as he entered the street door of the
Borden Building, New York City.

It was exactly half-past five o’clock in the afternoon.

“I am just on time,” mused the great detective, as he hurried toward the
elevator.

Neatly folded and stowed away in one of his inside pockets was a note,
which he had received by a messenger on the forenoon of that day. The
note, written on a typewriter, was not signed, and ran as follows:

“NICHOLAS CARTER, New York City. Dear Sir: Please call at room 59,
Borden Building, at half-past five o’clock this afternoon on important
business. Do not fail.”

There was such an air of mystery about the message that Nick concluded
he would respond, and promptly to the minute he was at the place named
in the note.

The Borden Building is one of those structures in lower New York City
which are used almost exclusively as offices.

It was Saturday afternoon, and when Nick found that the elevator was not
running he was not surprised.

Evidently most of the offices in the building closed on Saturdays before
this late hour.

A young man neatly, almost foppishly, dressed, had entered the building
ten seconds ahead of Nick and was near the first landing on the stairs
walking up when Nick placed his foot on the first step ready to follow.

Just then there came ringing through the building the sound of the
footsteps of some one flying down the stairs in precipitate haste.

Nick, by looking up, saw that the person making the furious descent was
a boy about fourteen years old.

The well-dressed young man stopped when he heard the boy coming, and as
the latter reached him he grasped the lad by the coat, and brought him
up with a jerk.

“What in thunder ails you?” growled the young man.

For a moment the boy could not utter a word. His face was white as
chalk, his teeth were chattering in his head, and he trembled so that it
seemed he must fall in a heap.

The young man gave him a vigorous shake and cried:

“Can’t you speak? What have you done? Where are you going?”

Then the lad found power to chatter:

“Oh-h, Mr. Ga-a-ay, she’s de-de-dead.”

“She’s dead? Who’s dead, you fool?”

“Mi-Miss Langdon,” gasped the lad.

“Miss Langdon dead? Why, what do you mean? Speak!”

“She’s been mu-mu-mur-dered.”

“What! Where?”

“Up there in the of-of-office.”

“Are you telling me the truth?”

“Indeed I am. Somebody sh-sh-shot her.”

“Then go call the police, and be quick,” said the young man, as he let
go of the boy’s collar and hastened his ascent of the stairs.

The lad continued his precipitous descent to the street, and Nick
followed the young man upward. He saw the latter stop on the fifth
floor, and disappear through an open door-way.

When Nick reached the same place, he noted with much interest that the
No. 59 was painted on the door through which the other man had passed.

Instantly he asked himself:

“Has my mysterious note anything to do with what occurred beyond this
door?”

Nick passed through the open door, and found himself inside a large
general office used by a law firm.

The name of the firm was also on the door. It was:

                           BRIDGELY & BYKE,

                              Attorneys-at-Law.

At the other end of the room a door stood ajar, giving entrance to a
private office. Beyond this door Nick heard high-pitched voices in
altercation.

He rightly guessed that whatever the tragedy might be, its location was
in that rear office.

Therefore, he crossed the large room, threw the communicating door open,
and, standing in the doorway, took in the scene at a sweeping glance.

There were two men in the medium-sized office.

One was the man who had preceded him up the stairs.

The man whom the boy had called Mr. Gay.

The other was an older man, perhaps thirty-five years of age, tall,
stockily built, with a slight stoop in the shoulder, possessing a rather
cold, cynical-looking face, and a pair of gray eyes, which had a habit
of trying to bore holes into everything upon which they centered.

This man at the time of Nick’s appearance stood leaning against a
flat-topped table with one side of his face toward the door. He saw Nick
as soon as the latter pushed the door wide open.

The other man’s back was toward the door, and Nick’s presence was not
known to him immediately.

He was just saying, his remarks being addressed to the older man:

“Do you think anybody will believe your story?”

The speaker was pointing to something before him.

That something was the form of a young woman seated in a chair before an
open scroll-topped desk. One arm hung helplessly at her side, and she
had, apparently, partly fallen forward until her head and left arm
rested upon the desk.

Nick recognized in this form the victim of a tragedy.

Before the detective had time to move a step forward, the elder man,
with those gray eyes focused upon Nick’s face, said:

“What do you want?”

“I want to know what has been going on here.”

The younger man had wheeled around facing Nick, and he, in turn, asked:

“Who are you?”

“I am Nick Carter.”

To Nick’s surprise the young man moved back several steps as if annoyed
or confused, and the elder scowled without removing his gray eyes from
Nick’s face.

The latter advanced to the desk where the form of the young woman
reclined, and made a quick examination.

There was a bullet wound in her right temple. The ball had pierced her
brain, and she was dead.

On the right hand was a glove into which the fingers had been fitted,
but the thumb and upper part of the hand were still bare.

The first inference drawn from this fact was that she had been shot
while engaged in putting on her gloves preparatory to leaving the
office.

In the minute which followed, Nick made one of his lightning ocular
inspections of the premises, in which very little was left to be
discovered.

At the end of that time the sound of many rushing footsteps was heard
coming up the stairs.

All this time the two men in the room with him remained silent and
inactive.

Nick walked into the main office, and met the first man of the ascending
throng at the door.

It was a young policeman, whom Nick happened to know quite well.

“Ah, Brown!” exclaimed Nick, confronting the officer at the threshold,
“I’m glad ’tis you. You’ll understand me without a lengthy
explanation.”

“Who are you?” panted Brown, for Nick of course, was in disguise.

“I am Nick Carter. There has been a crime committed back there, and
until I know more about it you must keep everybody out. Let none of
these curiosity-seekers intrude.”

“I am at your service, Mr. Carter,” said Brown. “Lord, I’m glad you’re
here. Seems to me you always bob up when anything happens. What is it?
Murder?”

“I want to find out. Is there anybody with you?”

“Yes, McCarthy is coming, but he’s so fat it’s hard and slow work for
him to get up all these stairs. Here he is now.”

Some one rapped on the door at that instant. Brown admitted a policeman,
who was blowing like a porpoise.

“Bad cess to thim shtairs!” gasped McCarthy, “an’ thor had bin tin more
ov ’em, sure it’s a dead mon I’d be this minute.”

“Well, McCarthy, just take charge of this door, and see that no one
enters who has no right. Those who have a right, and whom I want to come
in, are persons who have been in this building within the last hour, and
the boy who carried you the news.”

Brown opened the door and beckoned to the boy to enter. The latter drew
back as if about to fly again, but a man near by grasped him by the
shoulder and pushed him toward the door.

“Who are you?” inquired Nick.

“I’m the janitor,” was the reply.

“Then come in, too.”

Still keeping hold of the terrified boy, the janitor entered the office
and the door was once more closed in the face of the crowd, which by
this time numbered nearly a score.

“Brown, I want you to summon the coroner, or one of his deputies just as
soon as you can get him here.”

Brown asked no questions, but left on his mission instantly.

“What’s your name?” asked Nick, turning to the janitor.

“Bush--John Bush, sir.”

“Then, Mr. Bush, I want you to look out among the people in that crowd
in the hall and identify anybody who has offices in this building.”

McCarthy held the door ajar while the janitor scanned the eager faces in
the crowd.

“There is Mr. Grote, Mr. Kennedy, and Miss Lucas,” was his report.

“Tell them to come in,” commanded Nick, in a low voice.

“Will Mr. Grote, Mr. Kennedy, and Miss Lucas come in?” said the janitor,
addressing his words to the collection of people in the hall.

The three persons answering to these names crowded their way forward,
and were admitted.

Then the door closed again.

To the five people inside, not including the policeman, Nick said:

“You will wait in this room until further orders. Meanwhile, officer,”
turning and addressing McCarthy, “let no one else in until Brown returns
with the coroner, and see that nobody meantime leaves by that door.”

Nick turned toward the inner room to find the young, stylishly-dressed
man looking out, much interested at what had been going on in the larger
office.




CHAPTER II.

THE GLOVE ON THE DEAD GIRL’S HAND.


Nick returned to the rear room. His first act was probably a surprise to
both the men whom he had found there when he first entered.

In short, he requested the two men to step into the outer office.

They complied rather hesitatingly.

He followed them, and closed the communicating door.

Then he coolly took a seat near by, and waited for the coroner.

Fifteen minutes after Brown started to bring the coroner, he returned in
company with that official.

Nick met the coroner quietly, and lost no time in making himself known
to him.

Then he requested Brown to send the crowd on the outside about their
business, and again cautioned McCarthy to let no one of those in the
large office go out.

This done, he preceded the coroner into the rear office, and closed the
door behind them.

The coroner took a quick inventory of the surroundings, and then turned
to Nick for information.

The detective related everything just as it occurred to him, except that
he made no mention of the type-written note which had brought him to the
scene at such a strange time.

“And what have you learned of the case from those two men, Mr. Carter?”
inquired the coroner.

“Nothing. I have asked not a single question, preferring to wait till
you got here to receive the story of the case as these people can or
will give it.”

“That is quite complimentary, I am sure, Mr. Carter. Whom shall we
question first?”

“Before we question anybody let me tell you about a few things I have
noted in this office.”

“All right--go on.”

“The victim was shot in the right temple.”

“I see.”

“From the position of the body the shot must have been fired by some one
standing in front of that window, or the shot must have come from across
the street and through the open window.”

The coroner noticed that the desk on which the dead woman had fallen was
almost exactly in front of an open window and about twelve feet from
it.

He glanced across the street and discovered that a window in an opposite
building was directly in line with the office window and the desk.

“You think the shot was fired by some one standing in that window over
there?”

“I did not say so. On the contrary, I found this pistol lying directly
under the victim’s dependent hand.”

“Suicide?”

“I am expressing no opinion, just stating facts,” quietly remarked Nick,
as the coroner took a pistol from him and examined it.

The weapon was of Smith & Wesson make, had six chambers, was peculiarly
mounted, and on a silver plate inlaid in the handle were the initials
“E. L.”

One of the chambers contained the empty shell of a cartridge. The other
four were loaded.

The coroner stooped, and inspected the wound in the head of the victim.

“I see no powder marks on her face,” he said, looking up at Nick.

“There are none. Besides, I call your attention to the condition of the
right hand.”

The coroner’s eyes turned quickly to the hand of the corpse, which hung
at the side of the body.

“Ha! I see. She was putting on her glove, and couldn’t have handled the
pistol herself.”

“Not unless she fired the shot with her left hand.”

“But the bullet entered the right temple?”

“I am not sure of it.”

“But see. Here is the wound,” cried the coroner, pointing to the little
blue spot on the side of the girl’s face, which was turned up to their
gaze.

“Yes, that is a wound. But the bullet might have come out at that place
instead of going in.”

“Oh! Then there is a wound on the other side of the head; the side which
lies upon the desk.”

“I think there is.”

“You think. Don’t you know--have you not raised the head to see?”

“I have not raised the head to see, but I know there is.”

“Why, how do you know if you have not seen?”

“Because here is the fatal bullet, and it not only went into her head,
but clean through it.”

“Where did you find it?”

“In that corner of the room back there.”

“Why, that is almost behind the body?”

“Yes. The bullet passed through her head, hit the steam coil on the
other side of the desk, and carromed at an acute angle, fetching up in
the corner where I found it.”

“It was surely not suicide,” mused the coroner.

“It may not have been,” responded Nick.

“She would certainly not have stopped while putting on her gloves to
commit suicide?”

“You say gloves. There is but one glove,” remarked Nick, dryly.

“Only one in sight. We shall find the other, I presume, if we make
search.”

“I doubt it.”

“Why?”

“Because the glove she partly put on that hand is not her own.”

“Not her own? Why, man, how do you know?”

“Because it is fully a size too small for her.”

“But----”

“You would say she has it partly on. That is true, but if you examine it
carefully you will see that the fingers would not even go in as far as
the ends. The glove could not have been forced on her hands.”

“Then whose is it?”

“I don’t know,” said Nick, who meanwhile had walked across the office
and was examining a woman’s light sack which hung from a hook on the
wall. “It certainly didn’t belong to her, for here is the pair she
used.”

He held up a pair of gloves of an entirely different color, and probably
several sizes larger than that which was partially on the hand of the
corpse.

“Well, by Jove!” muttered the coroner.

Nick had reached down again into the pocket in which he found the
gloves. This time he fished out a lady’s pocket-book. Without opening
it, he carried it across the room and gently pulled the glove from the
stiffening fingers of the dead girl.

Then he rolled the three gloves and the pocket-book up together, and put
them all away in an inside pocket of his coat.

“With your permission, I’ll take charge of these important articles of
evidence,” he said to the coroner.

The latter nodded assent, and asked:

“What is in the pocket-book?”

“We’ll find out later when I’ve time to examine it. Now, we must get
together our facts by questioning those people out there one at a time.”

“A good idea.”

“But, before we begin, I want to make a request.”

“Name it.”

“That you postpone the inquest from day to day till I have a chance to
get to the very bottom of the mystery.”

“Willingly, my boy, and meantime I’ll not bother my brains about it,
because I know what Nick Carter cannot fathom in a case like this will
never be found out.”

“Thank you. Now, we will call in and question our first witness.”

“Who will it be? the elder of the two men--the one who must have been
here first after the tragedy or when it occurred?”

“No, I think I’ll first hear what the younger and more fashionably
dressed one of the two has to tell. I’ll call him in.”

So saying, Nick went to the dividing door, opened it, and beckoned to
the man who had preceded him up the stairs only a few seconds to the
scene of the tragedy.

The young man entered the rear office, plainly laboring under great
excitement. Nick closed and locked the door, invited his witness to take
a seat, and lost no time in beginning his examination.




CHAPTER III.

WHAT THE CONFIDENTIAL CLERK KNEW.


“In order to get down to the facts in this case,” began Nick, addressing
the young man, “it will be necessary to apply for information to those
who are supposed to be in possession of the knowledge we seek. We have,
therefore, called you in first to set us on the way in our inquiry.”

“I am ready to answer any question which it is in my power to do?”
responded the young man, trying hard to repress his nervousness.

“What is your name?”

“Oscar Gay.”

“What is your business?”

“Confidential clerk.”

“For whom?”

“Bridgely & Byke.”

“Where are Messrs. Bridgely & Byke now?”

“Mr. Byke is in Europe--has been away about one month.”

“And Bridgely?”

“Bridgely has been dead more than a year.”

“Then Byke represents the firm as it existed before the death of the
senior partner--he constitutes the firm?”

Gay hesitated and shuffled uneasily in his seat for a few moments before
he replied:

“The firm name remains the same, but Mr. Byke has a partner.”

“Who?”

“Victor Redway.”

“The man I found in this room with you a while ago?”

“Yes.”

“This Redway, do I understand you, took a place in the firm after
Bridgely’s death?”

“Yes, sir.”

“And before that?”

“He was the confidential clerk of the firm.”

“Then you succeeded in the place made vacant by him when he was admitted
to partnership by Mr. Byke?”

“I did.”

“Now, Mr. Gay, who was that dead girl--she was scarcely more than a
girl.”

“Her name was Estelle Langdon. She was the office stenographer and
type-writer.”

“Where did she live?”

“Somewhere up in Harlem.”

“Was she married?”

Gay’s eyes gave a quick flash toward Nick’s face at this question--a
fact the detective mentally noted without pretending to notice it. The
answer came almost immediately.

“Not that anybody was aware of.”

“Has she relatives?”

“None--I believe.”

“How long have you known her?”

“About six months since she came here.”

“What do you know about the way she died?”

“Nothing, except what I saw as I entered the office just before you
came.”

“Tell us what that was--what you saw.”

“The body was lying there just as it is now. Mr. Redway was near by on
the side next to the window. When I entered, his body was in a bent
position, and one hand was extended toward the pistol on the floor.”

“About to pick it up?”

“Either that, or had just laid it down.”

Nick came to a dead halt in his queries at this answer, and sat for
thirty seconds looking Gay straight in the face. The latter became
plainly uncomfortable under the detective’s glance.

“Did you ever see that pistol before?” inquired Nick, when he once more
continued his examination.

“I did.”

“To whom did it belong?”

“To Victor Redway.”

“But the initials ‘E. L.,’ how do you account for them?”

“I can’t account for them. They were on the pistol as long as I knew
Redway to possess it.”

“How long is that?”

“Several months.”

“Did Redway carry this pistol regularly?”

“He never carried it.”

“Then where did he keep it?”

“In the drawer of his desk over there.”

Gay nodded to the flat-topped desk setting against the wall to the right
of the open window, and almost directly behind the corpse.

“You are sure of that statement?”

“Yes, I have seen it there often.”

“Didn’t he keep the desk locked?”

“No. I never knew him to carry a key to the desk.”

“Then Miss Langdon could have got the pistol herself had she chosen?”

“I suppose so.”

“What was the relationship of Redway and Miss Langdon?”

“What do you mean?”

“Were they on friendly terms?”

“Oh, yes.”

“Very confidential?”

“No, hardly that, I guess. Not in the presence of any one else, anyhow.”

“Might they have been lovers?”

“If they were, no one knew it.”

“Did they ever quarrel?”

“Not to my knowledge.”

“They occupied this office together?”

“Yes.”

“Where is your desk?”

“In that other private office,” pointing to an adjoining room into which
a door gave communication a little to the right of the desk on which the
body lay, and separated from the office they were in by a heavy division
wall. The door was closed, but a transom above the door stood wide open,
as Nick was quick to note.

He lost no time in fixing in his mind the location of this room in its
connection with the other two.

It formed the L to the suite, and had no direct communication with the
large or general office. There were two doors only to this third room.
One connected it with the room in which the body was found and the other
opened into the hall.

Therefore, to get into that room, it was necessary to enter either
directly from the hall or through both the other offices.

“This is Mr. Byke’s private office, I suppose?”

“Yes.”

“And you, as his confidential clerk, have your desk in there?”

“Only in his absence; when he is at home, I occupy a desk in the large
office.”

“Were you in there at your desk to-day?”

“Not since noon.”

“You were absent since noon?”

“Yes, until I returned just in time to be ‘in at the death.’”

There was a bad attempt to smile, as this was said, but the smile was
painfully forced.

“Then you know nothing about the manner of the tragedy?”

“Nothing.”

“You and Redway were exchanging hot words when I surprised you. What was
it that passed between you?”

“I accused him of having killed Miss Langdon.”

“And what reply did he make?”

“He was insolent. Asked me what I intended to do about it, and wanted to
know what proofs I had to fortify my charges.”

“And then?”

“You came almost before I could reply.”

“And have you any proofs?”

“Nothing but suspicion.”

“On what is that suspicion based?”

“Well, I’ve noticed that Miss Langdon has been growing fond of him for
the last few months. She showed it frequently. I imagined that he at
first received her preferences with pleasure, but that of late they had
become annoying to him.”

“That is the result of observation only?”

“That is all. I may be mistaken, too, you know.”

“Has Redway a family?”

“Do you mean is he married?”

“Yes. Has he a wife, children, or relatives with whom he lives?”

“I believe not--not that any one knows of.”

“Where does he live?”

“In bachelor apartments on Fifty-fifth street.”

“That will do for the present, Mr. Gay.”

The young man arose, and started to go into the other private room by
way of the communicating door, but Nick stopped him.

“Not there, Mr. Gay. You will be so kind as to remain in the outer
office until we have questioned the other parties.”

Gay scowled and went reluctantly back to the large office.

Nick gave the coroner a significant look, and remarked:

“He seems to be very anxious to get into that closed room, but he’ll not
do it till I’ve had a look in there first myself.”

“What do you make of this Oscar Gay?” asked the coroner.

“Nothing--yet. We’ll now see what Victor Redway has to say.”




CHAPTER IV.

THE JUNIOR PARTNER’S STRANGE BEHAVIOR.


Victor Redway entered the room of death looking pale and worried. He
cast a glance at the body of the dead girl, and a perceptible shudder
shook his frame.

Nick lost no time in “doing business” with the junior member of the law
firm.

“Your name is Victor Redway?” began Nick.

Redway nodded assent.

“The junior member of this law firm?”

“As Mr. Gay informed you, I presume.”

There was a decided sneer in the reply.

“Mr. Gay has told us a number of things. How many of them were truth
remains to be seen.”

As Nick said this, he did not fail to notice that Redway seemed pleased
with the latter part of the sentence.

“The two men are enemies, if not openly, then unavowed,” thought Nick.
To Redway he said:

“We have called you in here to get your version or story of the tragedy
so far as you are willing to give it.”

“Willing to give it? What do you mean?”

“Why, this: I am a detective; this is the coroner; you are a lawyer.
This is not an inquest, nor yet a preliminary hearing; you are not under
oath. There may be circumstances about the death of that girl which you
do not desire to tell. Indeed, it might be to your interest not to talk
of it at all.”

Redway looked at Nick long and steadily. At last he said:

“I think I understand you. You believe I killed her?”

“I have no belief one way or the other. It is my business to prove, to
know, not to believe.”

“But I am suspected?”

“The law will undoubtedly look to you to make a satisfactory explanation
of your knowledge of the crime, or your ignorance of it.”

“Well, suppose you ask me your questions.”

“You will answer?”

“Some of them, perhaps. As a lawyer, I may choose to remain silent on
some points--for the present, at least.”

“Then I’ll begin at the beginning. Mr. Redway, did you kill that girl?”

The answer came without hesitation, and accompanied by the faintest
touch of a smile.

“I certainly did not.”

“Do you know who did?”

The answer to this question was not given so spontaneously, and the
smile gave way just an instant to the shadow of a frown. After only a
moment of hesitation, Redway replied:

“No, I do not.”

“Do you believe she committed suicide?”

“My belief on that score is not of any value.”

“Do you know whether she had any cause to kill herself?”

“No.”

“Did you ever hear her threaten to kill herself?”

“Not directly.”

“Will you explain?”

“Well, she once dropped the remark that if she ever married, and her
husband deserted her for another woman she would, she believed, kill
herself.”

“Ah!”

“But she would first kill the man who deceived her and the woman who
robbed her of her rights?”

“Oh! What called forth this declaration?”

“The story of a client who had suffered somewhat in the same manner.”

“How did she hear the story?”

“I told it to her.”

“She was not married?”

“Not to my knowledge.”

“Had she a lover?”

“How should I know.”

“Were you and she not on confidential terms?”

“Why should we be?”

“You two were in here together a great deal.”

“True, as man and employee. I am not one to become confidential with an
office attache.”

“Not even with a pretty woman?”

“Especially not with a woman of any kind.”

There was a hard, bitter ring to these words, which Nick did not fail to
make a note of.

“Yet you told her the story of that deceived client.”

“There was a reason for that.”

“What reason?”

Redway frowned again, and answered:

“That is something I refuse to say.”

“You were not her lover, Mr. Redway?”

An angry flush mounted the young lawyer’s brow, and he replied:

“The question is not worthy of an answer.”

“You are sure you never gave her cause to believe you thought more of
her than any other young woman?”

“I don’t pretend to know what is in any woman’s mind.”

“But your treatment of her----”

“Was of a business kind entirely.”

“Well, we’ll leave that part of the subject and come down to the
tragedy. Were you in the room when the fatal shot was fired?”

“Why, no, certainly not.”

“Where were you?”

“On the street.”

“Was there any one in the office at the time?”

“I don’t know.”

“When you came in you found her lying there on that desk dead?”

Nick once more noticed just the mote of a hesitation in the reply.

“Yes, she was sitting there in that chair stone dead.”

“How long had you been out of the office?”

“Ten or fifteen minutes--maybe longer.”

“Where had you gone?”

“To the street.”

“To any particular place?”

“Yes.”

“You had an object in leaving the office for the street?”

“Perhaps.”

“But had you not?”

“Oh, yes. There usually is an object in all we do.”

“Well, what was your object in this instance?”

“I think I will not answer that question.”

“Very well. When you went out, what was Miss Langdon doing?”

“Putting her desk in order.”

“Preparatory to leaving?”

“I supposed so.”

“Was it her time to go home?”

“It was past the time.”

“What had detained her?”

“I don’t know. A woman’s whim, perhaps.”

“Did you say anything to her as you went out?”

“Yes.”

“What?”

“She asked me: ‘Are you going, Mr. Redway,’ and I replied: ‘Yes.’”

“She meant to ask whether you were leaving for the day?”

“I suppose so.”

“And you deceived her?”

“No. I had no intention then of coming back.”

“What changed your mind?”

“A mere whim. I couldn’t answer you intelligently on that point.”

“You mean you will not,” thought Nick.

“When you came in you found her dead?” Nick continued.

“Yes, I said so before.”

“Any one else in the office?”

“No.”

“You gave no immediate alarm?”

“No.”

“Why?”

“Because I realized from the first that it was an awkward fix for me to
be in, any way I could manage it.”

“So you remained?”

“Yes.”

“What did you do here alone with the corpse?”

Redway’s gray eyes once more turned sharply on Nick’s face before he
made reply.

“I spent a few minutes trying to find some trace of the crime, and at
the same time figuring upon my own danger.”

“So you waited for some one to come in?”

“I waited till some one did come in.”

“Who was it?”

“Jack Marston--the office boy.”

“How long after you returned was it till Jack Marston appeared?”

“I don’t know. A man under such circumstances hasn’t much knowledge of
time.”

“Did you send him to summon the police?”

“I made him understand that Miss Langdon had been killed, and--well, he
did the rest without waiting for directions.”

Again that faint smile twitched the corners of Redway’s stern mouth.

“And while he was gone Gay came in?”

“Yes.”

“When he entered the door where were you?”

“At the side of the corpse.”

“What were you doing?”

“I had just stooped to pick up the pistol.”

“Oh! But you didn’t pick it up?”

“Why, no! In my personal contact with Gay I forgot it.”

Nick gave a quiet chuckle in his innermost soul at so neatly trapping a
lawyer.

“Whose pistol was it, Mr. Redway?”

“Mine.”

“Where was it when you saw it last before you saw it on the floor near
the dead girl?”

“In the drawer of my desk over there.”

“When was that?”

“This morning.”

“Was it loaded?”

“Yes.”

“Every chamber?”

“I remember distinctly filling the chambers with cartridges yesterday,
and I have not fired one of them since.”

Nick noted the evasive answer.

“Were you in the habit of keeping it loaded?”

“No. On the contrary, I seldom had a cartridge in it. Yesterday I bought
some and filled the chambers.”

“What for?”

“I intended it for the benefit of a cat which spends the midnight
keeping people awake.”

“Another evasive answer,” mentally noted Nick.

“Well?”

“Well, I went away without taking it with me. Hence it lay there all day
loaded.”

“Did Miss Langdon know the pistol was in that drawer?”

“I suppose she did. The drawer was never locked, and she frequently went
there to get things out of it.”

“That is all I have to ask you at present, Mr. Redway. Will you have the
kindness to remain in the outer office till we have a talk with the
office boy?”

“I have no choice but to oblige you,” came the sarcastic reply, and the
junior partner left the room.

The coroner looked at Nick with a puzzled expression on his face.

“What do you make of Mr. Redway?” he asked.

“Nothing yet, but there is a good deal more to learn which may place Mr.
Redway in an entirely different light. Now for Jack Marston. I depend on
the boy for information which may be most valuable.”




CHAPTER V.

THE MYSTERIOUS LADY CALLER.


Jack Marston labored under extreme terror in the presence of the dead
girl--so much so that Nick spent five minutes getting the lad’s mind in
condition to answer questions coherently. Then he began on the lad
cautiously.

“How long have you been office boy for Bridgely & Byke, Jack?” asked the
detective.

“Nearly two years.”

“What are your hours?”

“I get here at eight o’clock, and this time of year go home generally at
five.”

“The office is closed up at that time?”

“The janitor generally takes it to clean up. Sometimes he don’t get in
till later.”

“Do you lock up when you go away?”

“No, the janitor does that.”

“Who leaves the first generally?”

“Mr. Byke, when he’s here.”

“And when he’s not here?”

“Why, Mr. Gay. Mr. Gay has been out a good deal since Mr. Byke went to
Europe. He went away to-day about eleven o’clock, and told me he wasn’t
coming back, but he did come, late as it was.”

“Are you always the last to leave?”

“No, sir! Sometimes Mr. Redway stays here later than five, but he never
keeps me.”

“And Miss Langdon?”

“She always left when I did--at five o’clock. The elevator stops running
then.”

“But she didn’t leave at five to-day?”

“I guess not, sir.”

“How does it come you returned to-day after your hour for going home?”

“Mr. Redway sent me on an errand.”

“What kind of an errand?”

“To take his watch to a jeweler’s on Broadway to be cleaned.”

“What time was that?”

“Ten minutes before five.”

“And told you to come back?”

“No, sir; he said I needn’t come back. But the jeweler’s place was
closed on account of a death in the family and I came back with the
watch.”

“Did you give him the watch?”

“No, sir, I forgot it. I was so scared.”

“Where is it?”

“In my pocket.”

“Let me see it.”

The boy handed to Nick a magnificent gold hunting case watch. Merely
glancing at it, Nick said:

“I’ll return this to Mr. Redway. You needn’t tell him that the jeweler’s
place was closed.”

“But----”

“No buts about it, lad. I am Nick Carter, and represent Superintendent
Byrnes, and this is the coroner. You do what I tell you and no harm
shall come to you.”

Nick saw he was dealing with a naturally bright, quick-witted and honest
lad.

“Now, then, Jack, tell me. Who was here in these offices when you left
to take Mr. Redway’s watch to the jeweler’s?”

“Nobody, except him and Miss Langdon.”

“That was ten minutes before five.”

“Yes, sir.”

“You are sure that he didn’t follow you to the street?”

“Not that I saw. He had just come in from the street about ten minutes
before.”

“Oh!”

“Yes, sir, he went out with a lady, and was gone nearly half an hour.”

“Who was she?”

“I don’t know. I never saw her before.”

“What kind of looking lady was she?”

“Young and very handsome.”

“Whom did she ask for when she came?”

“For Mr. Redway.”

“Did she not give a name?”

“No, sir. I asked her for her name. But she replied with a question, ‘Is
he in there?’ Then she walked back, opened the door, came in here and
shut it.”

“Before the door closed I heard Mr. Redway say, ‘What--you here?’”

“Where was Miss Langdon?”

“Out at lunch.”

“What time was that?”

“When the lady came?”

“Yes.”

“About half-past two o’clock.”

“And how long did she stay?”

“Till a quarter past four.”

“Was in there all that time with Mr. Redway?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Did no one disturb them?”

“No, sir. Mr. Redway gave me orders soon after the lady went in that he
was not to be disturbed by anybody. So I sent several parties away.”

“But Miss Langdon?”

“She came back about a quarter of three and sat out there in the big
office with me till the lady went away.”

“Didn’t she appear to be curious about the strange visitor?”

“Not one bit till the lady went out and she saw her. Then she got
somewhat excited.”

“She saw the woman as the latter went out?”

“Yes, sir. Miss Langdon was in the big office as Mr. Redway and the lady
went through on their way to the elevator. Mr. Redway said to me as he
passed, ‘I’ll be back soon, Jack,’ and accompanied the lady downstairs.”

“I don’t believe either of them saw Miss Langdon, who was sitting in the
corner, sort of behind the door.”

“And you say the sight of the strange woman excited her?”

“Very much. As soon as they were on the elevator she began asking
questions about the woman, and seemed to be very much worked up, though
up to that time she scarcely seemed to give the lady visitor a thought.”

“Was Miss Langdon inclined to grow excited?”

“No, sir. On the contrary, she was nearly always quiet and easy-going.”

“What did she do till Mr. Redway returned?”

“Walked around in that office there nervously, and seemed as if she
couldn’t wait till he got back.”

“Well, when he came back--what then?”

“He went right back to the office, and left the door open behind him.
Miss Langdon shut it herself.”

“Ah! that is interesting. Go on.”

“I didn’t hear much that was said, though I might had I cared to listen,
for Miss Langdon’s voice was raised to a high pitch.”

“Did you hear anything?”

“Yes. I couldn’t help it. She almost shrieked the words.”

“What words?”

“Why, these: ‘If I was sure of it, her life wouldn’t be worth a penny.’”

“Were they still quarreling when you were sent out with Mr. Redway’s
watch?”

“No, sir. At least, she seemed to have cooled off considerable.”

“When you came in what was Mr. Redway doing?”

“Washing his hands in that stationary basin over there,” said Jack,
pointing to a lavatory behind a screen in one corner of the office.

“What did he say?”

“He seemed very much surprised and somewhat confused. I saw Miss Langdon
lying on the desk that way, and, remembering the scene between them, I
asked:

“‘Why, Mr. Redway, what ails her?’

“He said: ‘Jack, she has met with an awful accident.’

“Then I went up, and as soon as I saw she was dead I ran as fast as I
could downstairs and met Mr. Gay coming up.”

“Did you ever see this pistol, Jack?”

“Yes, sir, often.”

“Where?”

“In Mr. Redway’s desk over there.”

“When did you see it last?”

“Yesterday.”

“Where?”

“In Miss Langdon’s hands.”

“What was she doing with it?”

“Loading it.”

“What for?”

“She said Mr. Redway had loaned it to her to shoot a cat.”

Nick’s mind instantly reverted to Redway’s evasive words about shooting
cats.

“But she didn’t use it, I guess?” ventured Nick.

“I don’t know, but I reckon she tried it.”

“Why?”

“The pistol was not there last night after she went away.”

“Are you sure?”

“Quite sure. I went to the drawer for some blanks, and the pistol was
gone, though the box of cartridges was still there.”

“Did you see the pistol this evening?”

“I haven’t seen it since till now.”

“It was on the floor, almost at the touch of Miss Langdon’s hand.”

“The one which hung down--had the glove on?”

“Yes.”

“You are mistaken, sir.”

“What do you mean?”

“I noticed the hand with the glove on when I went to look at her. There
was no pistol near it.”

“You may not have noticed it.”

“I would have seen it if it had been there,” insisted Jack.

With a caution to the lad to keep sealed lips for a day or two Nick
dismissed him.




CHAPTER VI.

WHAT THE STRANGE WOMAN SAW FROM ACROSS THE STREET.


The janitor was the next person called and questioned.

“You take charge of the offices every evening to clean them out and lock
them up, do you not?” asked Nick.

“I do, sir.”

“What time do you generally begin that work?”

“Usually right after five o’clock, when Mr. Redway leaves.”

“But you did not come to these offices at five o’clock to-day, nor yet
as early as half-past five?”

“True, sir. I had been asked to wait till six o’clock.”

“Asked to wait till six? By whom?”

“By Miss Langdon, God rest her soul!”

“Did she say why she wanted you to wait?”

“She said she would be busy till that time.”

Nick’s mind instantly reverted to the type-written message which had
summoned him to the place of the tragedy.

“Besides sir,” continued the janitor, “Mr. Redway did not leave at five
o’clock as usual.”

“How do you know that?”

“I saw him go downstairs five minutes after the elevator stopped, and it
stopped at five o’clock.”

“This is important information. Did you see him come up again?”

“No, sir; but somebody came up about five minutes after he went down,
for I heard the man’s steps. I was busy in an office two floors below,
however, and didn’t look out to see who it was.”

“Were there any other persons in the building at that time?”

“Only the three persons out there in that room. They occupy offices two
flights above, and are here every day till six o’clock.”

“Did you hear a pistol shot?”

“No, sir, I did not.”

“Isn’t that strange?”

“It does seem so, sir.”

“Was there any unusual noise about the time the shot may have been
fired?”

“Only once, sir.”

“What was the noise?”

“A wagon loaded with bar iron passed on the street below and made a
great clatter.”

“About what time was that?”

“Near five o’clock.”

“Before or after Redway went downstairs?”

“Just before, if I remember rightly.”

Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Grote and Miss Lucas were then called in together and
questioned concerning what they knew of the affair.

Neither had any knowledge which at first could throw light on the
subject in hand.

They had been at work in their offices, two floors above, and neither
heard a pistol shot.

“Do any of you remember the noise of a heavily loaded wagon which passed
through the street below about five o’clock?” inquired Nick.

Mr. Grote remembered it distinctly, and for a good reason.

When questioned for the reason, he replied that at the time Miss Lucas
was standing at the window looking down the street. He had called to
her, and the din was so great he was compelled to raise the pitch of his
voice and call three times before she heard him.

Miss Lucas then remembered the circumstance, but was not aware of any
unusual noise at the time. There might have been such a noise, however,
but her attention was wholly engrossed just then by something else.

“What was it that interested you so much?” asked Nick. “Something you
saw in the street?”

“No, something I saw in a window across the street.”

“What did you see?”

“A woman.”

“Why did the woman prove so interesting?”

“Because from her actions I thought she was watching something which was
going on in this building.”

“Ah! now we are getting at something important. What made you believe
she was watching this building?”

“Because when she first came to that window she looked out boldly,
fearlessly and carelessly; suddenly she drew back and hid her face
behind the edge of the window, seemingly on the watch and anxious not to
be noticed herself.”

“Well?”

“She sat thus probably five minutes. Then, springing to her feet, she
almost ran away from the window and disappeared.”

“What window was it through which she looked?”

Miss Lucas pointed directly across the street and answered:

“That one.”

She had designated the window which Nick had previously noticed to be on
a line with the open window of Redway’s private office and the desk of
the dead girl.

Miss Lucas supplemented her information by saying:

“Our offices are directly above these, and I was looking down at the
woman--or rather at the place from which she had disappeared a minute
before when Mr. Grote called me.”

“Could you see the woman’s features?”

“Distinctly when she first came to the window.”

“Had you ever seen her before?”

“Only once.”

“When?”

“To-day--this afternoon as I was going out to lunch.”

“Where was she?”

“She got into the elevator as I got out.”

“What time was that?”

“About half-past two o’clock.”

Nick had no doubt that the woman at the window was Redway’s mysterious
visitor.

Mr. Kennedy and Miss Lucas were dismissed with a caution to repeat none
of their information to any one else.

Nick requested Mr. Grote to remain a few minutes.

After Kennedy and the typewriter had gone back to the private office
Nick whispered to the coroner:

“Make a pretense of trying to get some further information from Grote,
just to keep up the hum of conversation, while I take a look in the
private office of Mr. Byke.”

So, while the coroner engaged Mr. Grote in further conversation, Nick
silently used his pick-lock, entered the private office of Mr. Byke and
remained for nearly ten minutes.

When he returned to Redway’s office he locked the communicating door
behind him, and then said:

“Mr. Grote, as a representative of Superintendent Byrnes, I ask you to
mention to no one the fact that you saw me enter that room just now. It
may be of great concern to innocent parties who are in danger at this
time that my visit to Mr. Byke’s office shall not be known to any one
save our three selves for the present.”

“You can rely on me, sir, to be mum on the subject.”

“Thank you, and that is all.”

Nick himself accompanied Mr. Grote to the large office, and, addressing
the two policemen, said:

“Mr. McCarthy, all these good people, except Mr. Redway, of whom we wish
to ask a few more questions, may go. Mr. Brown, you will see that they
have free access to their offices or the street.”

Then, turning to Redway, the detective said:

“I would like to get a little more information from you, Mr. Redway.
Will you be so kind as to step back into your office with me once more?”

“Nobody could refuse a gentleman so polite as you,” was the sarcastic
reply.

Once inside, and the door locked, Nick proceeded without delay to his
task.

“Mr. Redway, you told me that you had been on the street, and when you
came back you found Miss Langdon dead.”

“You have stated the case correctly, sir.”

“What time was it when you left Miss Langdon here alive and went down to
the street?”

“I cannot give you the exact time.”

“Was it before or after five?”

“Before.”

“How do you know?”

“Because I rode down in the elevator, and the elevator boy never makes a
trip after five o’clock.”

“You are sure you rode down in the elevator?”

“Why, certainly I am.”

“Do you know where the elevator boy lives?”

“No, but the janitor can tell you. He has his address.”

The response was so feebly made that Nick was somewhat puzzled.

“Where was your office boy when you went out?”

“I had just sent him to the jeweler’s with my watch.”

“How long before?”

“Only a few minutes.”

“How long did you remain on the street?”

“Ten or fifteen minutes, probably.”

“Why did you come up, go down and return the second time?”

“What do you mean?”

“Well, you say you rode down in the elevator a little before five and
came back ten or fifteen minutes later. Why did you go down almost
directly afterward and return the second time?”

“I did not.”

“But the janitor saw you going down the stairs about a quarter past
five.”

“I beg the janitor’s pardon, but he saw nothing of the kind.”

“You deny, then, that you walked downstairs about that time?”

“Most emphatically. I have not walked downstairs in this building
to-day.”

“When you were coming up did you have occasion to retrace your steps for
a short distance?”

“No, sir.”

“You came straight up without turning back once?”

“Yes.”

“Is the janitor a truthful man?”

“So far as I know, he is.”

“If he declares, then, that he saw you go down the stairs at ten or
fifteen minutes after five, or at any time after five o’clock, what
would you say?”

“That he either lied or was mistaken.”

“Now, Mr. Redway, you refused to tell me why you went to the street on
that last trip down and where you were. Do you still refuse to answer?”

“I do.”

“A lady visited you in this office this afternoon.”

Redway’s face flushed and then grew pale. A cold, desperate gleam came
into his gray eyes and his lips closed tightly.

“Do you deny that, too?” asked Nick, after Redway showed no intention of
replying to the statement of fact.

“I do not.”

“Who was she?”

“That I refuse to tell.”

“And the nature of her business here?”

“Is my affair solely--and hers.”

“Are you sure it was not also Miss Langdon’s affair?”

“Quite sure.”

“After she went away you and Miss Langdon had a quarrel?”

“No, sir, we had not.”

“But Miss Langdon’s voice was heard in a highly pitched and exciting key
talking to you in here?”

“Miss Langdon was mistress of her own voice. I repeat, we had no
quarrel.”

“What was she saying to you while she was so excited?”

“I surely cannot tell you.”

“Why?”

“It concerned only herself, and she is dead. Her affairs are sacred so
far as I am concerned.”

“You left the building with your lady visitor?”

“Yes.”

“Where did you take her?”

“To the elevated railroad station.”

“Where does she live?”

“You will have to get that information from her.”

“Have you seen the lady since you left her at the elevated railroad
station?”

“Mr. Carter, there is no use in your asking me any further questions or
of my answering any more.”

“Then I presume, Mr. Redway, you are lawyer enough to understand your
position,” remarked Nick.

“Oh, yes! I must submit to arrest on suspicion. But I have no fears.
There is nothing in the case to fix the crime on me.”

“Do you know how Miss Langdon died?”

“I believe you asked me that question before, and I answered it. I do
not.”

“Then, till we find out, you will have to submit to detention.”

“Imprisoned, you mean. Well, I am ready.”

Nick, accompanied by Officer Brown, took Redway to the nearest police
justice, where a commitment was sworn out, and Redway was lodged in the
Tombs.

Before he left the Borden Building, however, Nick questioned the janitor
again about the person who went down the stairs shortly after five
o’clock.

“Are you positive it was Mr. Redway?”

“Sure as I live I am.”

“No mistaking some one else for him?”

“How could I? There’s no one else wears such a sky-blue suit, such a
straw hat with a black band or has such a long blonde mustache.”

When Nick heard this answer, calling up Redway’s peculiar dress and
appearance, he couldn’t doubt the janitor’s word. Then he got the
address of the elevator boy, and turned the case over to the coroner
with this personal request:

“Postpone your inquest from day to day, until I have had a little more
time to look into this affair.”

Redway once safely in the Tombs, Nick went straight to the home of the
elevator boy. He found the lad at supper, and knew the news of the
tragedy in the Borden Building could not yet have reached him.

“I am trying to find Mr. Redway,” explained Nick, “and I thought you
might tell me where he is.”

“Why, he has rooms somewhere on Fifty-fifth street, I believe. Did you
look in the directory?”

“Yes! He isn’t there. Was he in the office to-day?”

“Sure!”

“You saw him?”

“Why, yes, several times. He rode up and down with me.”

“How many times?”

“Oh, four or five, maybe!”

“Was any one with him on any of the trips?”

“There was a stunning-looking young lady with him once when he went
down.”

“Was that the last time he went down?”

“No, he came back half an hour later and went down with me on my last
trip at just five o’clock.”

This information confirmed Redway’s statement, and was a puzzler for
Nick. He had reason now to know that if the janitor was correct in his
testimony Redway must have come up almost immediately by the stairs,
gone down the second time by the same way and returned a second time by
the stairs.

The case had a very puzzling complexion at this particular place.

“When did you see Mr. Gay last?” asked Nick.

“Mr. Gay left the office about eleven o’clock and didn’t come back any
more.”

“Did anybody inquire of you during the day for the offices of Bridgely &
Byke?”

Nick expected the boy to say that the strange lady did. The reply was
rather disappointing.

“Only one old fellow--an old man who rode up about half-past two or
three o’clock.”

“How long did he stay?”

“I don’t know. He didn’t go down with me. Guess he must have walked.”

“Half-past two or three o’clock,” said Nick to himself. “The office boy
told me that several parties came in while the strange woman was
closeted with Redway and that he sent them all away. This old man was
one of them, I suppose.”

Then, for the time being, Nick dismissed all thoughts of the old man
from his mind. But the existence of that personage was destined soon to
be recollected with startling force.




CHAPTER VII.

NICK AND CHICK IN CONFERENCE.


The great detective’s next move was to go straight home and summon his
right-hand man, Chick, for a conference.

Without a waste of words or time he put his assistant in possession of
all the facts of the case up to that minute.

When he finally ended the details with an account of his visit to the
elevator boy he threw himself back in his chair and gave Chick a look
which meant:

“That is all. What do you think of it?”

The latter returned his chief’s stare for a full minute; then he uttered
the single word:

“Well?”

Nick echoed the monosyllable:

“Well?”

“I guess you have a pretty deep case on your hands,” smiled Chick. “But
I’ll wager my watch against your toothpick on one point.”

“Which is?”

“That though you’ve locked Redway up in the Tombs you don’t believe he
killed the girl.”

“You would win the toothpick if I took your bet. Still, I might be
mistaken.”

“I don’t believe you are, and I shouldn’t be surprised if you had some
testimony back of all that which you have revealed which puts this
Redway in a better light than ever.”

“Chick, you are a good pupil; I’m proud of you.”

“Thanks. I will go further, and say that I believe you think Redway
knows who killed the girl, or how she died, and that he is shielding
somebody.”

“You must have learned mind-reading with your other accomplishments,”
smiled Nick. “Maybe you can tell me who it is that he is trying to
shield?”

“Not unless it be the strange woman.”

“Humph! We must find that woman and learn more about her,” was the
non-committal reply. “Chick, there is another character I want watched,
and you’re the very one to do it.”

“Who?”

“The confidential clerk--Gay.”

“Oh, ho!”

“I don’t like him. Besides, there is a mystery about him.”

“Well?”

“He was absent from the building most of the day, but he managed to be
in at the death.”

“Did you ask him what had brought him back at that particular time?”

“No.”

“Why?”

“It would have told him that he was under suspicion. Best to have him
off his guard.”

“You have other evidence to involve him?”

“Yes.”

“I thought so. What is it?”

“I told you about my quick, hurried secret visit to the office of the
senior member of the firm?”

“Yes. What did you discover in there?”

“Not much, and yet a good deal. There was a mirror so fixed near the
ceiling that a person standing or sitting near the connecting door could
see reflected everything which went on in the other room where the
tragedy occurred.”

“And, as the transom above the door was open, could hear as well?”

“Yes.”

“I see. That office was supposed to be deserted all the afternoon?”

“Correct.”

“Yet some one was concealed in there, and heard and saw all that was
said and done in Redway’s office?”

“I believe so. Whoever it was, he or she made a mistake.”

“By forgetting to remove the mirror?”

“Exactly. And unless I am much mistaken that mirror will trap the person
we want.”

“How?”

“If it disappears from its place high up there on the wall before
to-morrow--and I think it will.”

“I see, I see. You have arranged to find out who goes into that office?”

“Yes. The janitor will keep me posted.”

“Can you trust him?”

“I think so.”

“But how about his seeing Redway go downstairs at the time he says he
did?”

“I believe he saw some one go down at that time.”

“Who? Redway?”

“That I am not ready to answer. It is one of the knotty places in the
mystery.”

“Nick, who wrote that note to you?”

“I have no doubt it was the girl who was killed.”

“What was her object?”

“She had serious work for a detective, or she would not have sent for
me. The girl wrote another note on her typewriter to-day besides the one
sent to me.”

“To whom?”

“I don’t know; it is not addressed. I’ll show it to you.”

Nick produced the dead girl’s pocketbook, from which he took a
typewritten slip, on which was this message:

“You failed to keep your engagement last night. I’ll give you just one
more chance. Meet me to-night at the same place, 8:30 sharp, and be
ready to come to some definite understanding with me. If you fail me
this time I will consider myself absolved from my oath.”

“Nick, this is the key to the whole tragedy.”

“I think so, too.”

“The note was never delivered.”

“Certainly not.”

“Why?”

“For want of an opportunity--that’s clear.”

“She may have backed down after writing it.”

“You believe the note was intended for Gay, and that he gave her the
slip to-day before she had a chance to get it to him?”

“Right you are, lad.”

“Did he go away from the office suddenly, without telling any one?”

“Yes, except the office boy, whom he told just as he went out, leaving
word for Redway that he would not be back during the day. Of course,
Miss Langdon got the message indirectly.”

“Well, what else?”

“This.”

Nick produced Redway’s watch and opened the back of the case. When he
turned the inside toward Chick the latter looked upon the portrait of a
lovely little girl of six or seven years of age.

“Who is she?” asked Nick, as he gazed admiringly at the beautiful face.

“That we must find out.”

“Does she look like Redway?”

“No. She has none of his features that I can see. Yet I believe it will
be found that the child plays a prominent part in the tragedy by some
indirect method.”

“Why do you think so?”

“Because there is a slight resemblance between her face and the face of
the girl who was killed.”

“Ah! that makes the child an important character in the case. What is
your next move, Nick?”

“There is no next move. It must be a series of moves in which I need
your help and the aid of Ida.”

“Well, map out your business.”

“First, I want to find the mysterious woman.

“Secondly, I want to find that little girl.

“Thirdly, I want to discover where Estelle Langdon went last night--in
order to discover her place of meeting with the party to whom she
addressed that note.

“Fourthly, I want Gay shadowed.”

“Well, which part of the job is mine?”

“I’m going to turn Gay over to you.”

“All right. Gay’s my meat.”

“I’ll look up the handsome, mysterious woman myself.”

“And Ida?”

“I’ll send Ida to the home of the dead girl to get information there.”

“Perhaps you can give me an idea where I’ll find Gay?”

“I think I can. Go down to the Borden Building, and wait till he comes
there.”

“To-night?”

“Certainly! He’ll wait till some of the excitement dies out in that
vicinity. Then he’ll visit that private office, or I am greatly
mistaken.”

Ida was brought into the case at this stage and instructed in the part
she was expected to play.




CHAPTER VIII.

NICK BEGINS TO SOLVE THE RIDDLE.


Having partaken of a hasty supper, and having changed his disguise, Nick
went downtown again to the neighborhood of the tragedy.

He did not go to the Borden Building this time, but to that one across
the street, in which was the office out of whose window he was convinced
the strange woman had seen the tragedy as it occurred in the office of
Bridgely & Byke.

The building was locked up for the night, but Nick had no trouble in
finding the janitor, who lived in one of the upper rooms, but who at
that hour was on the street discussing with his acquaintances the
tragedy of the Borden Building.

Oh, yes! He--the janitor--knew whose offices were exactly opposite
Bridgely & Byke’s--they belonged to Lawyer John Woodford.

With Lawyer John Woodford’s address in his possession, obtained from the
directory, Nick started uptown in search of him.

He found the lawyer at home, and was pleasantly received.

Nick inquired about a lady, whom he believed had been in Mr. Woodford’s
office that afternoon about five o’clock, but of whom he had lost all
trace soon after.

Yes, Mr. Woodford admitted that a woman had called to see him about that
hour. He was out at the time, and his office boy asked her to sit down
and wait.

She did wait for a little while, when, without saying a word, she passed
hastily out of the office, almost running as she went.

He had come in a few minutes later when the boy related the circumstance
to him.

He had no means of knowing whether he had ever seen the lady or not, or
of knowing who she was. She left no name; indeed, left nothing to
identify her but a glove.

Here the lawyer pulled a lady’s kid glove from his pocket and held it up
before Nick’s eyes.

“She left this behind in her unceremonious departure,” the lawyer said.

Nick recognized it at once as the mate to the glove which was found
partly on the hand of the dead girl.

With some reluctance, and apparent misgivings as to the policy, Lawyer
Woodford permitted Nick to take the glove away with him.

As the detective was about to leave, Woodford seemed to recollect
something, and said:

“Oh, by the way, perhaps I know who can tell you more about that lady!”

“Indeed?”

“Yes. My boy told me that she had scarcely disappeared down the
stairs--she didn’t wait for the elevator--when Mr. Redway, of the firm
of Bridgely & Byke, stepped off the elevator, and inquired for the lady.
He seemed much disappointed when told she was gone.”

This was intensely interesting news to Nick.

“Did Redway follow her?” inquired Nick.

“Why, no. The stupid boy did not tell him she walked or ran downstairs,
else he might have followed her. Do you know, I think she was trying to
avoid Redway. I’d advise you to see Redway.”

Again Nick examined the directory. This time he looked for the name
“Oscar Gay,” but didn’t find it. The name was not in the New York
Directory for the current year.

He then turned to the Brooklyn Directory, and found the name, with the
address, on Brooklyn Heights.

It didn’t take him long to go over to the place, which he found was a
middle-class boarding-house.

The landlady informed him that Gay had not been a boarder with her for
ten months.

He went to New York somewhere, but she never learned exactly where.

“Was there any reason for his leaving?” asked the detective.

“None that I’m sure of. There was a young lady boarding here at the same
time, and we thought they were rather sweet on each other. She left,
too, a few days after him, and I haven’t heard a word of either since.”

“What was the young woman’s name?”

“Let’s see: she was a typewriter, and her name was--was--was
Langdon--Estelle Langdon.”

Though Nick had not discovered Gay’s address by his trip to Brooklyn, he
had obtained information that was almost equally as valuable, and he
went back to New York very much elated.

He returned to his house to meet with a surprise, which was almost
dumfounding.

As he entered, his servant said a lady was waiting to see him in the
library.

He proceeded straightway to receive his visitor.

She sat in the gloom as Nick entered, and it was not till he had turned
up the light that the surprise came.

Even then it required ten or fifteen seconds for him to arrive at his
startling discovery.

The moment his eyes fell upon the face of the woman before him a
conviction forced itself upon him that he had seen her before.

Then came the more forcible conviction that it was a striking
resemblance and not a recollection of features.

Her face had almost a counterpart in a younger, smaller countenance on
which he had recently looked.

It was a twin picture to the portrait of the child in the back of
Redway’s watch--was the face of the woman before him.

Instantly Nick knew that he was in the presence of Redway’s mysterious
visitor of the afternoon.

What good luck had sent her to him?

“You have been waiting to see me?” said Nick, inquiringly.

“If you are the detective, Nick Carter, I have,” was her reply, as she
looked intently into his face.

“Well, I am Nick Carter, at your service.”

“I have heard of your great professional skill, sir, and have come to
seek your help in a case that to me has recently become more than a
matter of life and death. I am rich, and can pay you well for your
services.”

“What is the nature of these services?”

“To find my child.”

“I thought so,” was Nick’s mental response.

“Boy or girl?” he asked.

“A girl.”

“How old?”

“Nearly seven years old.”

“Are you a widow?”

“No, sir,” with a flush. “My husband is alive.”

“But you don’t live with him?”

“I do not. We have not lived together for five years.”

“And he has your child hidden away?”

“Yes.”

“What is your name?”

“Evelyn Lock.”

“Have you a picture of the little girl?”

“No, sir. I haven’t seen her since she was less than two years old.”

The tears came into her eyes, and a sob broke from her lips as she said
it.

“Why have you not searched for the child before?”

“I have, but it was only within the last day or two that I have been
able to locate her--abductor.”

“Her father, you mean?”

“Yes, sir.”

“You are not a resident of New York?”

“No. I am an Englishwoman. My home is Birmingham. The last five years I
have searched the world over with no success, till, by accident, I found
the child’s father here in New York to-day.”

“He knows you are here?”

“Yes,” reluctantly.

“Is a reconciliation with him impossible?”

“It is--now.”

Nick began to fear that he understood the meaning of that last word,
“now.”

“You say ‘now.’ Were you willing to be reconciled until recently?”

“Yes; I loved him dearly--never ceased to love him in spite of the fact
that he robbed me of my child, for I know he was cruelly deceived about
me, and had I been guilty of all which he had cause to believe me guilty
of, I would have deserved to lose him, and my child, too.”

“Why do you say that a reconciliation now is impossible?”

“I cannot tell you that.”

“Is the cause on your side or his?”

“On his.”

Nick concluded he would now force the situation.

“You say you do not know how your little girl looks now?”

“Yes, sir. Remember, I have not seen her for five years.”

“Then I’ll let you see what she looks like.”

As Nick spoke he took Redway’s watch from his pocket, opened the back of
the case, and presented to the astonished young woman the portrait of
the sweet face set therein.

At first she could only gaze at it in utter stupefaction.

Then, realizing what it meant, she gave a great cry, pressed
the portrait to her lips again and again, and ended all
by--woman-like--fainting.

Nick caught her just in time to save the watch from slipping from her
grasp. His experience with fainting women was large and varied. The
means of resuscitation were near at hand, and he soon had his fair
visitor back to consciousness.

Her first question was:

“Where did you get it?”

“The watch?”

“Yes, yes!”

“Indirectly from its owner.”

“From--from----”

“From Victor Redway. He is your husband, and the father of the missing
child.”

The woman bent her head in silent assent.

“Is Victor Redway his real name?”

“Part of it. The full name is Victor Redway Lock.”

“Oh, yes--your married name. What is the little girl’s name.”

“Estelle Langdon Lock.”

It was one of those periods in Nick Carter’s life when sudden surprise
nearly struck him dumb.

What did it mean? This woman’s little girl and the concealed child of
Redway bearing the name of the girl who had so mysteriously met her
death that afternoon.

As soon as Nick had time to pull his wits together, he inquired:

“After whom was the child named?”

“After my aunt--my mother’s only sister.”

“Where is she now?”

“She has been dead some six years. She died broken-hearted. Her life and
mine were most wretchedly alike.”

“How so?”

“Her husband deserted her, taking their only child, a girl, away with
him.”

“Where did they go?”

“I don’t know. They disappeared, were never heard of again, and I
suppose both are dead.”

“Why did the girl go with the father and desert the mother?”

“She was her father’s idol, and he hers. She took his side of the
quarrel.”

“What was her name?”

“Same as her mother--Estelle. But what has all this to do with my
child?”

“More, much more, than you suspect, madame,” replied Nick, firmly.

“In what way--explain?”

“Presently. You recognize the portrait of your child in that watch?”

“Oh, yes! May I keep the watch?”

“If you answer me truly two questions.”

“Ask them.”

Nick produced the glove which had been taken from the dead girl’s hand,
and held it up before her.

“Is this your glove?”

She turned pale, but answered firmly and promptly:

“It is. Where----”

“And this one, too?”

“Yes, sir; that, too. Where did you get them?”

“This one,” designating the first one, “was found in the private office
of Victor Redway this evening.

“This one,” elevating the other glove, “was dropped in the law office of
John Woodford, just across the street from Redway’s office.”

The woman had turned deadly pale, and Nick thought once she would faint
again. So he gave her time to rally, which she did quite bravely. Then
he went on:

“When you dropped the last glove in Woodford’s office you were sitting
at his window watching a scene going on in Redway’s office, just across
the street.

“In that scene a girl in Redway’s office was trying to get this other
glove, the mate, on her left hand.”

Nick paused long enough to make his recital the more dramatic.

“While she was thus engaged, and while you were watching her, somebody
killed her, shot her--murdered her in cowardly, cold blood.”

Mrs. Lock sat as if chiseled from stone. If she had the power of speech,
she made no attempt to use it. So Nick concluded the dramatic
situation.

“You do not know who that girl was, but I believe you do know who fired
the shot which deprived her of life.

“Now, I am going to tell you who the victim was, and then I’ll ask you
to tell me who was the assassin.

“You did not recognize the girl, I suppose?”

A negative shake of the head was the only response.

“But you begin to suspect.”

“Ah, my God!” came the response, in a whispering gasp.

“The girl whom you saw murdered was our cousin, Estelle Langdon. Now,
who was it that fired the shot?”

The answer came almost as Nick expected.

For the second time Mrs. Lock lost consciousness. She had fainted again.




CHAPTER IX.

A HUSBAND’S LOVE.


When Mrs. Lock had once more regained consciousness, Nick gave her a
stimulant, and let her have plenty of time to come into full possession
of her reasoning faculties before he pressed her further about what she
had seen from Lawyer Woodford’s window.

When he did resume the subject, it was by saying:

“Take time to think the situation over seriously, Mrs. Lock, and then
give me your answer.”

“I can give you your answer now,” she replied, in a voice which was weak
and trembling. “All the answer I have to give?”

“By telling me what you saw from Lawyer Woodford’s window.”

“I do not admit that I saw anything from Lawyer Woodford’s window.”

“But you saw something. You were there when the shot was fired which
killed your cousin. You are probably the only living witness who saw
the deed done.”

“Ah! And yet you expect me to admit it, and tell what I am supposed to
have seen?”

“Yes.”

“And why do you think I would do so, if it was as you suppose?”

“Not if it was as I suppose, but as I know. I’ll tell you why I not only
think but feel sure you’ll conceal nothing from me.”

“Well?”

“Because you’ll do anything to save your husband.”

“To _save_ him?”

The emphasis which she put on the word “save” was a full confession to
the astute detective. She realized it almost as soon as the three words
were uttered.

But Nick’s next sentence somewhat relieved her mind, as well as
mystified her.

“You think you saw him kill Estelle Langdon?”

“I _think_ I saw him. Why----”

Again an accented word had made a confession, and she once more halted
in confusion.

“I am anxious to get at the bottom of a conspiracy of some kind, and I
can do it by having the benefit of your statement of just what happened
in that room as you saw it from across the street.”

“Mr. Carter, you say this to trap me.”

“As Heaven is my judge, Mrs. Lock, I do not.”

“You believe my husband is innocent of that crime?”

“I am sure of it, but circumstances are against him now.”

“They say, Mr. Carter, that you are the soul of honor.”

“If I have that reputation it is earned, and you may rely on it that I
will not sacrifice it at your expense, Mrs. Lock.”

“It seems almost inexplicable to me, but something prompts me to trust
you.”

“I do not believe you will ever regret it, if you do.”

“I’ll do it,” with a great sigh, as if of relief. “Yet the first
statement I make must seem like sending the man I love to his death.”

“You believe you saw your husband fire the shot that killed Estelle
Langdon?”

“Yes.”

“There was nothing to obstruct your view?”

“No--nothing.”

“You were seen to draw back from the window and partly conceal yourself.
Why did you do that?”

“Because I supposed I had been seen by Victor, and it was what I wanted
to avoid.”

“Ah, ha! Now, we are getting onto interesting ground. You did not go to
Woodford’s office, then, for the purpose of spying upon your husband?”

“Surely not. I did not know Woodford’s window commanded a view of
Victor’s office until I saw him come into the room where the girl sat.”

“Why did you go to Woodford’s?”

“To ask his advice and aid.”

“In what?”

“In an attempt at reconciliation with my husband, or to gain possession
of my little girl. I thought I had made some progress in my interview
with Victor, and I sorely needed advice.”

“How did it happen you went to Woodford?”

“I met him at Newport. When he heard I was practically friendless in
America, he gave me his office card and gallantly offered to assist me,
if I ever needed his aid. I had the card with me, and went to the
address.”

“Redway says he saw you as far as the elevated station?”

“So he did, but I left the station without taking the train and went to
hunt up Mr. Woodford.”

“Had you no other friend to whom you could go for advice and aid--one
you knew better?”

“One I knew better? Yes. But not one whom I thought I could trust,
especially in this particular case.”

“Why not in this particular case?”

Mrs. Lock showed a little confusion, while she frankly replied:

“Because the gentleman to whom I had become somewhat attached in a
friendly way, and to whom I gave my confidence, has lately shown a
disposition too much like that of a lover; indeed, he has gone to such
an extent as to propose divorce and then marriage.”

“That is quite interesting.”

“He has even tempted me with the promise to find and restore to me my
child, if I would reward him by eloping with him to some European
country.”

Nick was becoming intensely interested.

“Of course I could not go to him for advice or aid in the case as you
understand it, Mr. Carter.”

“Of course not, Mrs. Lock. What is this--er--gentleman’s name?”

“Oscar Gay.”

It required all of the great detective’s powers of control to conceal
from Mrs. Lock the intense satisfaction which the information gave him.

“How did you come to know this Gay?”

“We board at the same place on West Forty-sixth street.”

“What is his business?”

“He’s a lawyer.”

“Where is his office?”

“That I don’t know.”

“Of course not,” muttered Nick.

“Now, then, Mrs. Lock, you thought you saw your husband shoot that
girl?”

“God help me! Yes.”

“Describe exactly what you saw.”

“When I first went to the window, and sat down in plain view, I did not
notice the office on the opposite side of the street.

“The boy said Mr. Woodford would not be gone ten minutes, and I looked
at my watch to see whether he told the truth.”

“Good!” exclaimed Nick. “What time was it?”

“Three minutes to five o’clock.”

“Well?”

“As I put my watch away, I looked across the street into the opposite
window.”

“What did you see?”

“My husband and a girl, seemingly in some controversy. At that moment
Victor looked across and saw me.

“That was when I drew back into partial concealment.

“Almost immediately afterward Victor crossed the room, and left by an
opposite door. The girl sat down in a chair by a desk, and began to put
on a glove.

“Scarcely two minutes had passed, when, to my surprise, I saw my husband
walk back into the office from the opposite door.

“He came straight over toward the window, and seemed to be looking
across at my window just for a moment.

“For an instant he disappeared from my view. In a few moments he came
directly in front of the window. I saw he had a pistol in his hand.

“The girl was still busy with the glove. Without warning, he took
deliberate aim, and fired. The girl fell back in the chair, and her head
dropped forward on her chest.”

“And he?”

“Why, he seemed to glance over toward my window, presenting his full
face. Then he disappeared on the side of the window whence he came when
he produced the pistol.

“Almost directly after, he crossed the room once more, and again
disappeared through the door by which he had entered.

“Then I rushed out of Mr. Woodford’s office.

“In my dire distress and anxiety to get my child away from him I came to
you, having heard that you scarcely ever failed in work intrusted to
your care.”

“Well, you did the best thing you ever did in your life, Mrs. Lock, when
you came to me.”

“Why?”

“Because you’ll save your husband’s honor, if not his life, and I think
will regain not only your child, but his love also.”

“My God! Do not taunt me!”

“I speak the truth, Mrs. Lock. The man whom you saw commit the crime was
not your husband.”

“Not my husband? Why, the clothes--that long, blonde mustache--the
light, long hair--surely----”

“The clothes were a duplicate suit. The hair and mustache were false.
The assassin was a well-arranged double of your husband, who took pains
that you should see the deed done.

“There was a screen setting close by the window which could easily have
been pushed across to shut off your view. But it wasn’t.”

“Why are you so sure it was a double--a disguised man who did the deed?”

“First, because the proof is clear that the crime was done with a full
knowledge by the murderer that you saw it, and with due care that you
should see it.”

“Well?”

“Your husband, if capable of murder, would surely not have an object in
doing it before your eyes, but on the contrary.

“Then you saw your husband leave the room at about two minutes before
five?”

“Yes.”

“I have the testimony of the elevator-boy that he went right to the
elevator, and descended to the street.”

“Go on, please.”

“It would take him some time to go around to the building in which
Woodford’s offices are situated, probably five minutes.”

“Go on--go on!”

“He did go around, however, for Mr. Woodford said his boy told him that
Redway came to the door and inquired for you almost before you had been
gone ten seconds. You did not leave by the elevator?”

“No. I was so excited I rushed down the stairs.”

“And he stepped out of the elevator while you were on the stairs going
down.”

“Good Heaven!”

“So, you see, your husband can prove a perfect alibi. The deed was done
while he was going from his office to Woodford’s.”

“Has he furnished you with this proof?”

“No; he has gone to jail without a word of defense. When he returned, he
found the girl dead.

“He then placed her body on the desk, with one arm near her head, and
the other hanging by her side. Under this hand he placed his pistol.”

“How do you know?”

“Because you say the assassin left the body leaning back in the chair.
It was found in a different position.

“Because, according to your testimony, the assassin got the pistol from
the desk where Redway kept it, and put it back there when he had
finished his work.”

“Why did Victor arrange the position of the body that way, and place the
pistol under the hand?”

“To suggest suicide, and to shield the assassin. When the suicide theory
would not hold, he was willing to be thought guilty rather than say a
word to throw suspicion on the person he firmly believes killed Estelle
Langdon.”

“What person?”

“You. He believes you shot her from your position across the street and
fled. The position of the body, and the wound, certainly gave that
impression; for who could believe that the assassin would take a
position in front of a public window to fire the shot?”

“And he did this--for me?”

“Can a man prove his love more completely?”

Mrs. Lock let her face fall into her hands, while the hot tears trickled
from between her fingers, and she sobbed:

“Oh, Victor, Victor!”

Nick let her alone in her weeping.

When she finally dried her eyes and looked up, he asked:

“Have you--do you own a pistol, Mrs. Lock?”

“Yes.”

“And had it with you this afternoon?”

“Yes. How did you know?”

“Shrewdly guessed it. Redway knew you had it?”

“He did?”

Mrs. Lock’s face flushed, and Nick did not ask her to tell him how
Redway knew it.

He took Redway’s pistol from his pocket, and showed it to her.

“Is your pistol like this?”

“It is a duplicate. Victor bought the two at the same time. Mine has his
initials on it, and his has mine.”

“Then he thought there would be no danger of the bullet and his pistol
not corresponding,” smiled Nick.

“Who could the disguised assassin have been?”

“Can’t you guess?”

“I guess? Why, who do I know--surely not----”

“Yes. Oscar Gay.”

“Merciful Heaven! What was his object?”

“First, to get rid of a wife.”

“A wife?”

“He and your cousin, I think we’ll find, were privately married. By
fixing the crime on Redway, he would remove your husband. In that way he
expected to free himself and you, and make his marriage with you easy.”

“But I never would have married him.”

“Don’t be too sure.”

“I didn’t love him.”

“But you loved your child?”

“Yes, yes!”

“I am willing to risk my professional reputation on the guess that he
has the little girl’s whereabouts in his possession, and would have used
her to get your consent to become his wife.”

Mrs. Lock shuddered.

Just then a knock came to the door. The servant announced that Miss Ida
had returned and wished to report.

“Admit her,” was Nick’s command.




CHAPTER X.

CHICK SUPPLIES THE FINAL PROOF.


Ida was introduced to Mrs. Lock, and then she proceeded to make her
report.

She had visited the dead girl’s boarding-place in Harlem, where she
learned that Estelle was in the habit of spending the night elsewhere,
occasionally at the house of an aunt somewhere in the suburbs, it was
understood.

She had gone away the night previous to remain with this aunt, but
returned unexpectedly quite late. She told her room-mate that her aunt
was not at home.

For the first time Miss Langdon had a pistol in her possession with her
initials, “E. L.,” engraved on the handle.

Her room-mate said Estelle explained that she bought the pistol to shoot
cats, which annoyed them, at nights, from the back yards.

To prove her sincerity, she had gotten up in the night, and fired a shot
at a serenading feline.

Ida’s report was not what Nick hoped it might be, but just as she went
out Chick came in, and he brought news that made Nick’s eyes glisten.

“I’ve run down my man,” said Chick, in a tone of satisfaction, after
being introduced to Mrs. Lock and told by Nick to go ahead.

“Let us hear about it,” urged Nick, eagerly.

“Just as you thought he would, Gay returned to the Borden Building about
eight o’clock.

“He went up to his office, and came down in disguise.

“Had it been in day-time, I should never have thought the old chap was
Gay.”

“The old chap?”

“He was disguised as an old man.”

Nick instantly recalled the circumstance of the old man who had inquired
of the elevator-boy for the offices of Bridgely & Byke.

The detective had no doubt now that Gay had returned to the building in
that disguise, and got into Byke’s private office, where he had been
hidden all day, hearing and seeing that which went on in Redway’s
office.

“I followed him to a room on the Bowery. He was in that room about
twenty minutes. When he came out, he was again in disguise, but the
nature of the masquerade this time made my task of identification easy.”

“What was it this time?”

“An almost perfect counterpart of Victor Redway as you described him to
me.

“He had a cab waiting at the sidewalk. I suspected that the cab was
there for his use, and I had one ready to follow. He lost no time in
getting over to Brooklyn. I didn’t lose him _en route_.

“He drove to a house on Atlantic avenue, and went in. When he came out,
he had a little girl with him whom he handed into the cab, got in after
her, and was driven away.”

“A little girl!” gasped Mrs. Lock, with a hand pressed to her heart.

“The original of the picture in Redway’s watch,” said Chick.

“Oh, Heavens! My child--Estelle!”

“Do not get excited, Mrs. Lock,” cautioned Nick. “The little girl will
not be harmed, and will be safely in your arms in good time.”

“But, sir, she is in his hands--in the hands of a murderer.”

“He will not harm a hair of her head. She is too important for the
successful carrying out of his plans.”

“Well, disguised as Victor Redway, he had no trouble in getting the
little girl away from the people in whose charge her father had placed
her.

“He had, evidently dogged Redway’s steps and thus found out the girl’s
hiding-place after you confided your story to him.”

“What does he intend to do with her?”

“Hide her away till Redway shall be out of his path. Then make her the
price of your marriage to him.”

“I have the hiding-place located,” said Chick.

“Where is it?”

“On Ninth avenue, with Granny Grimes.”

“Well, he has a seasoned old wretch for a jailer, that’s certain.”

“Oh, what shall I do?” moaned Mrs. Lock.

“Do? Why, you must not return to your boarding-house. Your change of
feeling toward Gay might arouse his suspicions.”

“Then where shall I go?”

“Suppose you stay here as the guest of Mrs. Carter till to-morrow
morning?”

Mrs. Lock consented to Nick’s arrangements, and while Mrs. Carter and
Ida were making her as comfortable as possible Nick and Chick went out
on a little private business.

At exactly midnight the Tombs received another prisoner.

Oscar Gay, looking like a walking corpse, was led into the gloomy
prison, and securely locked into a cell in murderer’s row.

Next morning he was found dead on his cot.

No one will ever know where he had concealed the poison which ended his
miserable life; for Nick and Chick had searched him carefully before
they locked him up.

When Redway was released, he made a full explanation.

Nick’s deductions had been almost entirely correct.

When Redway found the dead girl collapsed in her chair on his return
from the unsuccessful attempt to see his wife in Woodford’s office, he
became convinced that Evelyn had fired the deadly shot.

The position of the body, and the nature of the wound, confirmed him in
his belief.

He examined his pistol, which he found in the drawer where he had placed
it that morning when Miss Langdon returned it to him. She gave it to him
with one chamber empty, and he had found it with one chamber empty. So
he naturally concluded it had not been discharged since the night
before.

He did not know that in his absence that forenoon Miss Langdon must have
put a cartridge in the empty cylinder.

When Redway “planted” the pistol beneath the dead girl’s hand he
supposed the empty chamber was the same from which she had discharged
the shot at the cat.

It turned out that Gay secured Miss Langdon her position with Bridgely &
Byke; also that Redway at once recognized her as his wife’s cousin, but
to keep his own identity a secret, did not let her know of his
relationship to her, after having tested her with a suppositional story
of a client, which was really his wife’s story.

Miss Langdon had recognized her cousin when the latter left Redway’s
office that afternoon. For some reason she associated Mrs. Lock’s visit
with Gay, because she had heard her give Redway her address, which she
knew was Gay’s boarding-place. She was insanely jealous of Gay, and
suspected him of treachery.

In that loud interview with Redway, after he returned from seeing Mrs.
Lock to the elevated station, Estelle admitted that she had borrowed his
pistol--which had formerly been a present from Redway to his wife, “E.
L.”--to kill Gay the night before, and then herself, if he refused to
absolve from her oath, not to betray their relationship by word or act
till he gave his consent.

He had failed to meet her, however, at their secret tryst, and had
avoided her next day.

Nick believes she had sent for him to have Gay’s footsteps dogged.

Gay, in his concealment, heard her threats against his life, and also
overheard all that passed between Redway and Evelyn. He foresaw final
reconciliation between the couple, and knew that he could only win by
sudden and desperate steps.

Fortune seemed to favor him. When he saw Mrs. Lock in the window
opposite, and heard Redway leave the office, his impulse carried him
away. In a flash he had assumed Redway’s disguise, slipped out into the
hall, and entered through the large office to Redway’s room, where he
coolly killed his victim before the eyes of the woman he was willing to
sell his soul to possess.

Thence he walked downstairs, and went to his room on the Bowery, taking
many chances of meeting the real Redway on the way.

In his Bowery den, he changed once more to his everyday stylish clothes,
and returned to the building to confront Redway.

His original design in duplicating Redway’s clothes, and getting the
false wig and mustache which made him so true a double, must have been
to get possession of little Estelle in the manner which he so suddenly
put into practice.

Victor Redway Lock and Evelyn Lock were restored to each other’s love
and confidence.

Their lives were so thoroughly reunited that no more false reports of
malicious enemies can ever part them again.

Chick found little Estelle unharmed in Granny Grimes’s miserable
lodgings, and placed the child in the arms of the mother she had almost
forgotten.

The happy little family are living peacefully and quietly on their
lovely English estate.

They never tire of talking about Nick Carter’s wonderful professional
skill in saving them from the almost successful plots of Oscar Gay.


                               THE END.


   The next number of the NICK CARTER WEEKLY will contain “The Best
     Detective in the Country; or, A Prompt Reply to a Telegram.”

                   *       *       *       *       *


                            LATEST ISSUES.

     187--The Best Detective in the Country; or, A Prompt Reply to a
     Telegram.

     186--Nick Carter Rescues a Daughter; or, The Junior Partner’s
     Strange Behavior.

     185--Nick Carter Saves a Reputation; or, A Button Worth a Fortune.

     184--Shielding a Murderer; or, Nick Carter’s Dealings with an
     Avenger.

     183--Saved from the Penitentiary; or, Three Cheers for Nick Carter.

     182--The Blood-Stained Check; or, Nick Carter in the
     Dissecting-Room.

     181--In the Clutch of the Law; or, Nick Carter’s Chain of Evidence.

     180--The Government Custom’s Swindle; or, Nick Carter’s Work for
     the U. S. Treasury.

     179--Nick Carter’s Beautiful Decoy; or, The Diamond Duke of
     Chicago.

     178--Nick Carter Arrests a Client; or, The Body Found in the Flat.

     177--Nick Carter’s Dumb Assistant; or, The Man with a Dead Brain.

     176--Nick Carter Behind the Counter; or, A Peck of Pawn Tickets.

     175--Nick Carter’s Pointer; or, A Hungry Dog’s Dinner.

     174--By Whose Hand; or, Nick Carter Advertises for a Cab-Driver.

     173--Caught in Six Hours; or, Trouble in Room No. 46.

     172--Burglar Joe; or, Nick Carter’s Leap in the Dark.

     171--Nick Carter’s Little Shadow; or, The Man with the Yellow Dog.

     170--Caught by Electricity; or, Nick Carter Bags an Old Offender.

     169--Unmasked by Nick Carter; or, An Attempt at Blackmail.

     168--Nick Carter’s Second Sight; or, A Dumfounded Prisoner.

     167--Nick Carter Makes a Loan That Brings Him Big Returns.

     166--Nick Carter Prevents a Disturbance, and Loses a Disguise.

     165--Nick Carter in a Hole; or, A Plan to Catch Him That Didn’t
     Work.

     Back numbers always on hand. If you cannot get our publications
     from your newsdealer, five cents a copy will bring them to you by
     mail, postpaid.




                          THE MEDAL LIBRARY.

     Oliver Optic and Others. The Right Books at the Right Price.


There is a line of classics for youth--the books your fathers read--the
books you want to read--the books the boys and girls will read and like
as long as the English language endures. They have done more to shape
the mind of American boys for the last fifty years than any others. We
refer to the writings of Oliver Optic, Horatio Alger, Edward S. Ellis,
Lieut. Lounsberry, James Otis, William Murray Graydon, etc. These names
are familiar wherever the American flag floats.

Unfortunately, they have heretofore been procurable only in expensive
binding at from $1.00 to $1.50 each. The average boy has not got $1.50
to invest. Ten cents is nearer his price. We have made the ten cent book
the leader with the elder readers. Now we are going to do the same thing
for the boys, and give them their favorites in a form in every respect
equal to our well-known Eagle and Magnet Libraries, at the uniform price
of ten cents. Thousands of boys have asked us to issue this line.
Thousands more are ready to buy it on sight. There is no line like it in
the world. We can justly call it the Medal series, as every book will be
a prize winner. It will contain no story that the boys have not approved
as a “standard.” They have bought them by the thousands at $1.00 and
upwards, and now they can get them for TEN CENTS A COPY.

63--In the Sunk Lands                                     Walter F. Burns
62--How He Won                                           Brooks McCormick
61--The Erie Train Boy                                 Horatio Alger, Jr.
60--The Mountain Cave                                    George H. Coomer
59--The Rajah’s Fortress                           William Murray Graydon
58--Gilbert, the Trapper                               Capt. C. B. Ashley
57--The Gold of Flat Top Mountain                       Frank H. Converse
56--Nature’s Young Noblemen                              Brooks McCormick
55--A Voyage to the Gold Coast                          Frank H. Converse
54--Joe Nichols; or, Difficulties Overcome               Alfred Oldfellow
53--The adventures of a New York Telegraph Boy          Arthur Lee Putnam
52--From Farm Boy to Senator                           Horatio Alger, Jr.
51--Tom Tracy                                           Arthur Lee Putnam
50--Dean Dunham                                        Horatio Alger, Jr.
49--The Mystery of a Diamond                            Frank H. Converse
48--Luke Bennett’s Hide-Out               Capt. C. B. Ashley, U. S. Scout
47--Eric Dane                                          Matthew White, Jr.
46--Poor and Proud                                           Oliver Optic
45--Jack Wheeler: A Western Story                 Captain David Southwick
44--The Golden Magnet                                George Manville Fenn
43--In Southern Seas                                    Frank H. Converse
42--The Young Acrobat                                  Horatio Alger, Jr.
41--Check 2134                                            Edward S. Ellis
40--Canoe and Campfire                               St. George Rathborne
39--With Boer and Britisher in the Transvaal       William Murray Graydon
38--Gay Dashleigh’s Academy Days                            Arthur Sewall
37--Commodore Junk                                    George Manvlle Fenn
36--In Barracks and Wigwam                         William Murray Graydon
35--In the Reign of Terror                                    G. A. Henty
34--The Adventures of Mr. Verdant Green              Cuthbert Bede, B. A.
33--Jud and Joe, Printers and Publishers                 Gilbert Patten
32--The Curse of Carnes’ Hold                               G. A. Henty
31--The Cruise of the Snow Bird                          Gordon Stables
30--Peter Simple                                        Captain Marryat
29--True to the Old Flag                                    G. A. Henty
28--The Boy Boomers                                      Gilbert Patten
27--Centre-Board Jim                           Lieut. Lionel Lounsberry
26--The Cryptogram                               William Murray Graydon
25--Through the Fray                                        G. A. Henty
24--The Boy from the West                                Gilbert Patten
23--The Dragon and the Raven                                G. A. Henty
22--From Lake to Wilderness                      William Murray Graydon
21--Won at West Point                          Lieut. Lionel Lounsberry
20--Wheeling for Fortune                                     James Otis
19--Jack Archer                                             G. A. Henty
18--The Silver Ship                                          Leon Lewis
17--Ensign Merrill                             Lieut. Lionel Lounsberry
16--The White King of Africa                     William Murray Graydon
15--Midshipman Merrill                         Lieut. Lionel Lounsberry
14--The Young Colonists: A Story of Life and
      War in Africa                                         G. A. Henty
13--Up the Ladder                                         Lieut. Murray
12--Don Kirk’s Mine                                      Gilbert Patten
11--From Tent to White House (Boyhood and
      Life of President McKinley)                       Edward S. Ellis
10--Don Kirk, the Boy Cattle King                        Gilbert Patten
9--Try Again                                               Oliver Optic
8--Kit Carey’s Protege                         Lieut. Lionel Lounsberry
7--Chased Through Norway                                     James Otis
6--Captain Carey of the Gallant Seventh        Lieut. Lionel Lounsberry
5--Now or Never                                            Oliver Optic
4--Lieutenant Carey’s Luck                     Lieut. Lionel Lounsberry
3--All Aboard                                              Oliver Optic
2--Cadet Kit Carey                             Lieut. Lionel Lounsberry
1--The Boat Club                                           Oliver Optic


                    OTHERS EQUALLY GOOD TO FOLLOW.

Order them at once. If you cannot get them send to us. Remember these
are 12mo books, printed from new plates, with elegant covers, and are
the “_real thing_” and only TEN CENTS A COPY.




                          The Tip Top Weekly

                   AND THE FRANK MERRIWELL STORIES.

     =No modern series of tales for boys and youth has met with anything
     like the cordial reception and popularity accorded to the Frank
     Merriwell Stories, published in Street & Smith’s TIP TOP WEEKLY, a
     publication which has to-day a circulation larger than that of all
     similar publications combined. There must be a reason for this, and
     there is. Frank Merriwell, as portrayed by the author, is a jolly,
     wholesouled, honest, courageous American lad, who appeals to the
     hearts of the boys. He has no bad habits, and his manliness
     inculcates the idea that it is not necessary for a boy to indulge
     in petty vices to be a hero. Frank Merriwell’s example is a shining
     light for every ambitious lad to follow.=


                 THE FOLLOWING ARE THE LATEST ISSUES:

207--Frank Merriwell’s Influence; or, Inza, the Mascot of the Crew.
208--Frank Merriwell’s Theory; or, A Fight for a Friend.
209--Frank Merriwell’s Five; or, Old Friends at Yale.
210--Frank Merriwell’s Honor; or, The Nobility of Badger.
211--Frank Merriwell’s Reward; or, Buck Badger’s Humiliation.
212--Frank Merriwell’s Football; or, the Disappearance of Jack Ready.
213--Frank Merriwell’s Handicap; or, The Heroism of Elsie.
214--Frank Merriwell’s Stroke; or, The Test of Friendship.
215--Frank Merriwell’s Favor; or, True as Steel.
216--Frank Merriwell’s Phantom; or, The Ghost of Barney Mulloy.
217--Frank Merriwell’s “Pull;” or, True and Tried.
218--Frank Merriwell’s “Liner;” or, Elsie, the Mascot of the Nine.
219--Frank Merriwell’s Compact; or, The Triumph of Badger.
220--Frank Merriwell’s Curves; or, Clipping the Tiger’s Claws.


ISSUED EVERY FRIDAY.      5c. PER COPY.      32 PAGES AND ILLUMINATED COVER.




_MORE LIBRARIES TO SUIT “TIP TOP” READERS._

The Do and Dare Weekly

PHIL RUSHINGTON, THE ACTOR-MANAGER.


=The “Do and Dare Weekly” tells of the exploits and adventures of one
PHIL RUSHINGTON, a lively, hustling, bright and brave American boy--a
first-class all-round athlete, and a thorough gentleman in all the
phases of his eventful career. The author of these stories is MR.
STANLEY NORRIS, an able writer, and one thoroughly in sympathy with the
wants of our boys and girls in the line of reading. His work is bound to
please.=


_The following are the latest issues_:

11--Phil Rushington’s Great Show; or, Another Whirl of Fortune’s Wheel.
12--Phil Rushington’s Star Rider; or, Rivals of the Ring.
13--Phil Rushington’s Home Trip; or, Two Kinds of a Circus.
14--Phil Rushington’s Loss; or, A Lion Hunt in the City.
15--Phil Rushington’s Rivals; or, Three Shows in One Town.
16--Phil Rushington’s Clown; or, The Secret of the Star Rider.
17--Phil Rushington’s Temptation; or, An Act Not Down on the Bills.
18--Phil Rushington’s Race; or, The Pursuit of the Rival Circus.
19--Phil Rushington’s Prize; or, The Show for Tent Number Two.
20--Phil Rushington’s Search; or, The Unknown Rider of the Ring.


     _The “Do and Dare Weekly” appears every Tuesday. 32 pages,
     illuminated cover, uniform in size and style with “Tip Top.”_




                              “Comrades”

                THE BEST RAILROAD STORIES EVER WRITTEN.


 =TOM WRIGHT, the hero of “Comrades,” is a bright boy who has decided
 to devote his life to the service of “King Steam” in one of the great
 railroads of our land. Rest assured he will reach fame and fortune on
the lightning express. The life of an ambitious railroad man is full of
 exciting incident, and Tom has his full share of adventures. Through
   all of these, he will be found _Wright_ by name, _right_ in word,
  _right_ in deed, and _always right_. The many adventures of Tom and
 his friends will be followed with the deepest interest by all who are
 fortunate enough to read this new series of splendid stories. Tom is
surrounded by several “comrades,” who join hands with him and stand by
 him in his various enterprises. MR. ROBERT STEEL is an author of wide
  experience in the field covered by these stories, and his work will
please all who admire the well-known “Tip Top Weekly” and “Do and Dare
          Weekly,” to which “Comrades” will be a companion.=


 6--Tom Wright’s Fast Run; or, The Million Dollar Train.
 7--Tom Wright’s Choice; or, The Engineer’s Strange Warning.
 8--Tom Wright on the Flyer; or, The Missing Express Package.
 9--Tom Wright’s Resolve; or, A Railroad Chum’s Noble Sacrifice.
10--Tom Wright on Duty; or, A Battle Against Railroad Crooks.
11--Tom Wright’s Substitute; or, The Dumb Flagman at Dead Man’s Curve.
12--Tom Wright in Demand; or, A Mile a Minute in a Private Car.
13--Tom Wright’s Right-of-Way; or, Stealing a March on the Enemy.
14--Tom Wright Misjudged; or, Called Down by the Company.
15--Tom Wright Switched Off; or, A New Start on a New Railroad.


Remember, “COMRADES” appears every Wednesday--Read it--Price 5c.

32 pages, illuminated cover, uniform in size and style with “Tip Top.”

       *       *       *       *       *


Typographical errors corrected by the etext transcriber:

Nick’s presecne was=> Nick’s presence was


Mr. Redwav had loaned=> Mr. Redway had loaned


*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NEW NICK CARTER WEEKLY  NO.
186. ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
